# Cybersecurity Incident Report: Phishing Attack at Financial Services Company

## Scenario 3 (Continuous)

You are a level one security operations center (SOC) analyst at a financial services company. You have received an alert about a suspicious file being downloaded on an employee's computer.

Upon investigation, you discover that the employee received an email containing an attachment. The attachment was a password-protected spreadsheet file. The spreadsheet's password was provided in the email. The employee downloaded the file, then entered the password to open it. When the employee opened the file, a malicious payload was executed on their computer.

Hashing is a cryptographic method used to uniquely identify malware, acting as the file's unique fingerprint. Now that you have the file hash, you will use VirusTotal to uncover additional IoCs that are associated with the file.

## Incident Handler's Journal

### Entry #1

**Date**: July 17th, 2024

#### Description
This incident occurred in the Detection and Analysis phase. The scenario allows me to investigate a suspicious file hash. I analyzed and determine if the alert signified a real threat.

**SHA256 file hash**:
```
54e6ea47eb04634d3e87fd7787e2136ccfbcc80ade34f246a12cf93bab527f6b
```

#### Tool(s) used
VirusTotal: Investigative tools to analyze files and URLs for malicious content such as viruses, worms, trojans, and more.

#### The 5 W's of the Incident

| Question | Answer |
|----------|--------|
| **Who** caused the incident? | Cyber criminal (malicious actor) |
| **What** happened? | The email contains malicious file (The file hash is written in the description box) |
| **When** did the incident occur? | 1:20 p.m.: An intrusion detection system detects the executable files and sends out an alert to the SOC. |
| **Where** did the incident happen? | Financial Service Company |
| **Why** did the incident happen? | Upon receiving the malicious content on the email, the employee downloaded and executed the malicious file. |

#### Additional notes

- How to prevent this from happening? Never ever downloaded suspicious files from emails.
- Should we increase the training section to raise more awareness of cyber attacks? Yes, we should
- Should I report this to Level 2 SOC Analyst? Yes. Depending on the playbook the organization uses, it might be different in handling the incident like this.

### Entry #2

**Date**: July 18th, 2024

#### Description
Playbook to respond to phishing incidents. Playbook is created during the Preparation phase. However, it can be used during Detection & Analysis, Containment Eradication and Recovery, and Post Incident Activity.

#### Tool(s) used
- Playbook
- Alerting ticket status (JIRA, etc.)

#### The 5 W's of the Incident

| Question | Answer |
|----------|--------|
| **Who** caused the incident? | Cyber criminal (malicious actor) |
| **What** happened? | Upon investigating, the ticket ID was created (A-AD3CO). The alert message has been generated and flagged as a positive phishing attempt. The severity of the damage is medium. The user opened a malicious email and opened attachments. The status is escalated. |
| **When** did the incident occur? | July, 17th 2024 (1:20 pm) |
| **Where** did the incident happen? | Financial Service Company |
| **Why** did the incident happen? | This happened as a result of an employee opening a malicious file and clicking a link from an unknown sender. |

#### Additional notes
- Reported to Level 2 SOC Analyst.

## Ticketing

| Ticket ID | Alert Message | Severity | Details | Ticket status |
|-----------|---------------|----------|---------|---------------|
| A-AD3CO | SERVER-MAIL Phishing attempt possible download of malware | Medium | The user may have opened a malicious email and opened attachments or clicked links. | Escalated |

### Ticket comments
The alert detected that an employee downloaded and opened a malicious file from a phishing email. The sender's name is too good to be true. The name is "Security IT team" and the email address is "kdfjlsfjdk@gmail.com". The email body and subject line contained grammatical errors. The email's body also contained a password-protected attachment, "bfsvc.exe," which was downloaded and opened on the affected machine. The alert severity is reported as medium. With these findings, I chose to escalate this ticket to a level-two SOC analyst to take further action.

## Reflections/Notes for scenario 3:

- How many entries are there so far? Two entries.
- The type of security incident the organization was affected by is Phishing.
- The attacker used the email address as an attack vector to carry out the attack.
- Providing more training and education may solve the problems.